Software Relibiity Models and Metrics
Reliability refers to the probability that a system functions without failure for a specific time in a specified environment.
Reliability  Engineering goal is to ensure that the developing software reaches the market with minimum development time, minimum development cos and maximum reliability.

In our MotherGuide, reliability is criical because incorrect and unreliable information may negatively impact marternal health decisios of the mother.
Failure refers to any departure of system behavior in execution from users needs of expectations. this makes it unreliable.
In MotherGuide, failure may be caused by;
1. Incorrect calculation of pregnacy weeks
2. Application crushing during use 
3. Inability of the system to send tips as expected by the mother.

Failure intesity refers to the number of failures occurring within a specific time period
This helps track the nuber of errors per day or week or month and the most affected modules for example the login, chat 


Mean Time To Failure.
This measures the average time the system operates before encountering a failure. 
for example if the system runs for 10 hours before failure or 8 hours before failure.
Then; MTTF = (10+8)/2 = 9 hours
A higher MTTF indicates better system reliability.

Reliabilty Growth
As bugs are indintified and fixed during testing, the reliability of the system improves or grows overtime
In MotherGuide , If continous testing is performed on modules such as;
pregnancy tracker, chat functionality, giving tips of a wrong week pregnancy, errors are fixed to reduce the future failures and reliability therefore grows
Reliability growth models include Basic Exponential model which assumes finite failures in infinite time, Logarithmic Poisson Model whicj=h assumes infinite failures



System Availability
This measures how often the system is operational and accessible
Availability =  MTTF/ (MTTF + MTTR)
where MTTF is Mean Time To Failure
      MTTR is Mean Time To RepairE


Reliability Testing Process
Define reliability objectives for example giving accurate tips, mnimize system crashes
Develop Operational profile for example user actions like login, tips, sending messages
Prepare test cases that is simulate real user interlactions
Execute tests that is run system under different scenarios
Analyze Failure data for example use logs to identify and fix issues


The goal of applying software reliability models and metrics, the MotherGuide Sytem ensures high quality performance, reduced errors and dependable systems which increases user trust.
